# Build Pages

I made the build process really simple by using [just](https://github.com/casey/just) (Just a command runner), which can build my whole blog with a simple command: `just all`. You can find my blog at [aocoronel.github.io](https://aocoronel.github.io).

Essentially it's going to run two distinct Shell scripts: `makeindex` and `build-pages`.

`makeindex`: This will generate both the master index and indexes for each sub directory within the `_posts` directory as a markdown file.
`build-pages`: This transforms all markdown files into a webpage, including the markdown files generated by the `makeindex` using the appropriate template files at `_templates`.

Markdown files must contain a frontmatter with these values: `title`, `date` (except for index files), `description` (except for index files) and `category`, where:

- `title`: Title of the post.
- `date`: In the format B-DD, YYYY (Jan 1, 2025).
- `description`: A brief description on the post content.
- `category`: Category name following the sub directories names in `_posts`.

These metadata are extracted on conversion, so they can be inserted in specific sections of each post, plus an extra of when each post was updated and what are the previous and next posts to them.

## Improvements

- [x] A unique look to the projects page.
- Lazy load content on index pages.
- Skip already compiled pages with no changes, by using `make` instead of `just`.

## License

This repository is licensed under the MIT License, allowing for extensive use, modification, copying, and distribution.
